stocks are valued at the highest levels
they have ever been in history depending
on the data that you use and in today's
video we are going to look at what's
going on at a deep level you came here
for the truth so let me unveil that for
you you could see the PE ratios you
could look at Price to Book price the
sales and confuse yourself with all of
the jargon that the financial industry
loves to use we're going to look at some
basic examples right here today that
just make it plain and simple underlying
all of this is money printing if you are
willing to devalue a currency you're are
going to see things priced more and more
and more of that funny money and that is
really what we're seeing overall you
print cash you devalue currency there
are some people who say that these
actions actually don't impact each other
and I want to know what they're on
because I want some of it look at it
here magificent 7 it's more like the
Blazing 2 and the tepid 5 Nvidia and
meta have pulled away from the rest of
the once hot group as investors focus on
AI I think it's really important that
yes of course AI is the flavor of the
day but it is very important to see how
we just move through these different
Trends first it was as they say here it
was the Fang then it was Fang with two
A's and time went on and it was this one
then it was that look you had Facebook
meta that they were talking about the
metaverse metaverse metaverse all the
time and what happened to their stock it
went down and down and down and down and
then they stopped talking about it and
they started firing people and what
happened to the stock it went up and up
and up and up it's all based around the
psychology of money interesting book by
the way and if you look at it in the way
that the speculation happens these
things are always moving in and people
believe that they have all the answers
until things change the speculation is
like the froth on top of your beer
perhaps in my case it would be the crema
on top of the espresso the little layer
there right but sometimes that froth
it's more than the actual contents of
what you want to get that's when you
know you have a problem hard to really
see when you're actually in the middle
of it but let's go in a little further
all right here we have it Bill gross
laments excessive exuberance as stocks
surge what I love about Bill gross is
that he would say anything he does not
care if you think that this guy cares
just look at some of the things he has
done before all right and he's saying
look bonds aren't attractive either
because there's too much Supply and that
is actually a topic for a different day
and I would love to get into depth on
the finance Friday class about that
specifically because it leads into
something I've talked about a lot which
is a fundamental problem massive problem
actually for for the United States and
the way that we see things as they are
uh basically just saying it tells me
that fiscal deficit spending and AI
enthus enthusiasm have been overriding
factors and momentum and irrational
exuberance have been dominating the
market since
2022 buckle up for excessive exuberance
okay so I think he makes a very good
point here and clearly we can see this
that over time there's always this
as I say the flavor of the day or
whatever that creates always always
there's going to be winners right like
do we think that Nvidia is going to be
worth nothing tomorrow no I'm not saying
that but certainly when we think that no
it can never stop then things of course
do just like what the problems of Tesla
stock today is that because of Elon Musk
and his you know purchasing of X or was
it that the you know path from 2019 into
all the way into 2021 was simply a lot
of speculation a lot of kma that's for
you to decide put that in the comments
Below in the example of Tesla is it the
problem that he's got issues today with
one man is it because they're not
producing enough Vehicles the model y I
believe was the most purchased vehicle
in the world uh at least fairly recently
or was it the fact that from 2019 into
2021 that should never have happened you
tell me put in the comments below let's
have that discussion Goldman Sachs says
Mega cap bull case might take the S&P
500 to 6,000 look if you keep printing
6,000 is nothing let's talk about S&P
500 to 10,000 why not why is your your
you know your goal if you're setting a
goal there why is it so low I mean
that's crazy set it higher why not print
into confetti why why not stocks look
look like they're in the most extreme
bubble in history according to investor
John husman he predicted uh 2008 and
2000 okay so we give him credit there
but we've seen many of these things
before where we get into a state of
overvaluation and then what happens I
think there are a lot of different
metrics today that seem very similar
okay we are watching the price of a lot
of these stocks just go straight up into
the sky and that is never a good sign
it's never a good sign to see that even
if you are heavily invested you don't
want to see it go straight up because
people start to sell off you want to see
a nice steady gain but people don't like
that especially with people that have a
little bit of money um you know I I had
people
bragging uh in the comment section
before about how much they're making and
please don't brag with with that amount
of money you got to real realize that
the amount of money that you think is a
lot maybe it's a lot to you but in the
grand scheme of things you're not having
any impact at all it's a drop in the
bucket okay and so when we look at the
big money that's where we need to put
our Focus because that's what's driving
the speculation in which brought your
stock your investment your portfolio to
the level that it is when we break this
down further you have to understand how
much money
is being put in to the you know the
financial system as a whole we can use
that term liquidity and liquidity is
measured by different things okay we can
look at the currency in circulation at
this time we could see the reserve
balances at the Federal Reserve we could
look at you know the amount of
quantitative easing or quantitative
tightening that's happening with the
Federal Reserve and we track all of this
stuff and we get an overall picture that
overall picture determines whether the
stock market will go up or whether the
stock market will go down you might
think to
yourself well you know these period of
time this is you know AI it's it's about
semiconductors it's about computer chips
it has actually very little to do with
that and then on top of it is that layer
of speculation it's not necessarily like
speculation is gambling I'm not saying
that I'm not saying it's all fraud
gambling and then people are going to
sell you must understand that there's
that speculation of people they've
bought in but they've got their finger
ready and waiting to sell I'm going to
wait until somebody else comes in and
then I'm going to sell it off that's the
issue and it's not the smalltime retail
Trader it's these companies that are
trying to make X number of dollars or X
percentage that they are going to sell a
portion not necessarily all of their
shares but they're going to do that when
they feel the time is right okay so here
it is looking at this I mean we can see
this in different ways but um
essentially looking at the total market
cap of the US Stock Market and that is
the green line comparing that with the
reserve balances with the Federal
Reserve Banks and it's an important
metric to compare and whenever these two
this by the way this is part of the
money mirror method um I I've talked
about this before money mirror method
the money GPS search for the money GPS
money mirror method talked about it
countless times it is available in the
um playlists on my YouTube channel but
basically when these two things go away
from each
other you might not think it's possible
but they find a way back together and
keep a close eye on that while we have
seen the federal funds rate like the
main interest rate of the FED of the
United States the actual like that that
would seem as if conditions are getting
tighter more um tight in general the
conditions have broadly loosened in fact
Financial conditions index shows us that
we are looser broadly this is a broad
term looser than where we were when they
started to increase interest rates isn't
that so weird but that's the way it
works and we got to understand where the
wealth is today who benefits from all
this this is the action that they've
been taking for many many years and here
you can see is it a surprise that over
the many many years those at the very
top have benefited the most and since
2020 they've benefited even more and
when you start breaking that down of
course the red line there that's the
0.1% and if you go even further 0.01 and
0.00001 and all that you see it you know
to a different degree but looking at it
I means it's clear the people at the
very top are doing more better than ever
before okay now let's look at this the
good and the bad I want to give you both
sides of the equation I want to show you
something this is interesting okay
because you are seeing $8.5 billion
preliminary agreement with Intel under
the chips and sign science act so
essentially they're getting cash to
build in the United States because of
everything that's been going on with the
semiconductors this is beneficial you
can compare the the stocks looking at
AMD which has done quite well in the
last couple years but come on just
looking at this uh Nvidia is just
overwhelmingly I mean just going crazy
but what I think is important right here
and now is to look at Intel they have
performed poorly and since this chart
was created
actually
basically you know other countries are
starting to say with China of course we
don't want any Nvidia uh we don't excuse
me we don't want any um AMD and we don't
want Intel and their stocks get crushed
as a result so you got to watch that
okay but the whole point here is that
some there are some winners and there
are some losers we have Amazon and
Google quietly tamped out down
generative AI expectations guys don't
you might have heard us say some things
that made the stock go up by 300% we
want to just Tamp down those
expectations and then we have of course
Apple's night nightmare year getting
worse okay all I'm trying to say here is
that we have so much speculation we have
so much stuff that's been going on all
around the news that keep pushing the
stock higher AR articles are being
written about it we are looking at all
this look Bitcoin did the best in my
opinion when it came down to
16,000 okay and then it went up to that
30 or $40,000 range more than doubling
where no articles were written about it
there was no talk about it it was
forgotten it just started trickling up
and up and up and up and now it's a
different story because now there's that
hype now there's the Euphoria going on I
like it a lot better when it was at that
16,000 leading up to the 30,000 when
everybody hated it that's what you got
to do but it's hard to be a contrary in
This Time Finance Friday if you want to
join it we got a small group of very
good people and I hope that you will be
one of those people there's a link down
in the description to learn about that
two hours every single Friday and
hopefully you'll join on there hit that
thumbs up button to support this channel
that's all I'm asking hit the thumbs up
button I really do appreciate that and
of course I'll see see you tomorrow take
care